ELTS Speaking Part 3 Topics
Below is a list of common topics in IELTS speaking part 3 which are still relevant for 2023 and most of which will probably be used in 2024 as well.

Speaking part 3 is:

A discussion with the examiner (4-5 minutes)

In speaking part 3, the examiner will ask a broader range of questions based on the topic that you had in speaking part 2. The questions require you to expand your answers further with explanation and examples of the world in general. The examiner will strictly control the time.

For example, if your topic in part 2 was “A time you were late to meet someone”, your part 3 questions will be either about Punctuality, Friends or Socialising. The questions will be about the world in general, not about you personally so make sure you don’t refer to yourself or your friends or family in this part of the test.

IELTS Speaking Part 3 Topics & Questions
Advertising

Do you think adverts have a big impact on what people buy?
Are adverts useful for people?
What kinds of adverts are most common in your country?
Which are more effective: adverts on TV or adverts on social media?
Do you think advertising aimed at children is acceptable?
What do you think about advertising for fast food?
Do you think some types of adverts should be banned?
Art

What kind of art do you enjoy?
What are the tradition art forms in your country?
What makes a good painting?
Do you think children should study art at school?
How can children benefit from learning art?
How has art changed in the last few decades in your country?
Books

What kinds of books do children in your country like to read?
Do you think children can learn a lot from books?
Do you think fairy tales are useful books for children?
Why do some adults read books written for children?
Do you think paper books will some day disappear?
What are the advantages of e-books?
Do you think libraries are still useful in today’s society?
Business

What are popular small businesses in your country?
What kinds of products does your country produce?
Do you think it’s important to purchase products from your own country rather than from abroad?
Why do some people like to run their own business?
Do you think family business are problematic?
What does it take for a business to be successful?
Has globalisation affected small businesses in your country?
Celebrities

How does someone become a celebrity?
Are all celebrities actors or singers?
Do you think a person needs to be talented to be a celebrity?
Are all celebrities good role models?
What do you think about celebrities who behave badly in public?
Do you think children should learn from celebrities?
How do celebrities have a positive impact on the world?
Are there any downsides to fame?
Do you think famous people have the right to privacy?
Are modern celebrities different to celebrities a few decades ago?
Clothes

Can clothing tell you much about a person?
Why do some companies ask their staff to wear uniforms?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of having uniforms at work?
When do people wear traditional clothing in your country?
How have clothes fashions change in your country over the last few decades?
What is the difference between clothes that young people and old people like to wear?
Culture

What popular traditions do you have in your country?
Do you think it’s important to keep these traditions alive?
Are young people less interested in traditions these days?
Do you think foreign culture is influencing the culture of your country?
How has your country’s culture changed over the last few decades?
What can be done to keep culture alive?
What kinds of traditional foods are there in your country?
When do people wear traditional clothing in your country?
What popular festivals are typical of your country’s culture?
Decision Making

Why do some people find it difficult to make decisions?
What kinds of big decisions do people have to make in their lives?
Do you think people ought to get advice before making big decisions?
Do you think young people today have different types of decisions to make about their lives compared to young people in the past?
Should children be allowed to make decisions on their own?
What do you think about people who change their minds after making a decision?
Education

What makes a good student?
What role should the teacher have in the classroom?
Do you think computers will one day replace teachers in the classroom?
How has teaching changed in your country in the last few decades?
What is the difference between the way children learn and the way adults learn?
How can a teacher make lessons for children more interesting?
Environment

What are the biggest environmental problems in your country?
What should individuals be doing to protect the natural environment?
Is pollution a problem in your country?
How could the government help prevent pollution?
Do you think young people today are more aware of environmental problems compared to the older generation?
Do you think it’s important to protect trees?
Do you think more money should be spent on protecting wild animals?
Do you think zoos are important?
Family

Is family important in your country?
How has the size of the family changed in the last few decades in your country?
How do you think the family will change in the future?
What role do grandparents play in the family in your country?
Who do you think should be responsible for the care of the elderly, the family or the government?
Food

Do you think diet is important?
What is a balanced diet?
What is the typical diet of people in your country?
Do many people eat in restaurants in your country?
Why do some people enjoy eating out?
What’s the difference between restaurant food and home cooked food?
Health

How can people improve their health?
Do elderly people do much exercise in your country?
Do you think all illness can be prevented?
Do you think there will be less illness in the future?
Do you think health care should be free?
What makes a good doctor?
Internet

Do most people have a computer at home in your country?
Do you think all information on the internet is true?
How can people find reliable information on the internet?
How has the internet changed the way we live?
How has the internet changed the way we work?
Do you think the internet is safe for children to use unsupervised?
Language

At what age should children start learning a foreign language?
Why do someone people struggle to learn a new language?
Do you think it’s easier to learn a new language if you are in the country where the language is spoken?
What kinds of dictionaries do people use to learn a language?
Why do some people want to learn a new language?
Do you think it is important to learn the language of a country that you are visiting on holiday?
Leadership

What traits does a good leader have?
Do you think leaders should be physically attractive?
Is there a leader in your country who is or has been greatly admired?
Why do some leaders loose popularity?
Do you think people are born to be a good leader or is it something someone can learn?
How could leadership be taught in schools?
Do you think leaders should be good listeners?
How do leaders motive people to follow them?
Media & News

Do you believe everything you read in the newspapers?
How do most people get their news in your country?
How do you think people will get their news in the future?
How has TV changed our lives?
Do you think TV influences the way we think?
Should children be allowed to watch a lot of TV?
Are all people on TV famous?
Do you think famous people have a responsibility to act as role models for the younger generation?
Movies

Is going to the cinema to watch a movie popular in your country?
What kinds of films are popular in your country?
Do many people enjoy watching foreign films in your country?
Do you think it’s better to have subtitles or dubbing in a foreign film?
What does it take for a film to become successful?
Which do you think are more important to the success of a film: the director or the stars?
Are drama series popular in your country?
Do you think people prefer watching films at home or in the cinema?
Are there any films which are not suitable for children to watch?
Do you think films about real life events should be 100% true to the actual facts?
Nature

What are the main environmental problems in your country?
Why should people be concerned about the environment?
How can people protect the environment?
Do you think money should be spent on protecting animals?
Do you think more should be done to protect natural beauty spots in your country?
Photography

Do many people like taking photos in your country?
Which device do they usually use to take photos?
What types of photos do people like to take?
What do you think of selfies?
Do you think it’s ok to share photos online without people’s permission?
What makes a good photo?
How does a photo differ from a painting?
Is it true that a photo can tell no lies?
What does it take to be a good photographer?
Punctuality

Is punctuality important in your country?
Do you think being on time is more important now than in the past?
How do people make sure they are on time for an appointment?
Do people in your country usually wear a watch?
Why do you think some people are frequently late?
Is it easy to control one’s time?
How can a person balance their daily schedule?
What is the main reason people run out of time?
Socialising

How do people in your country meet new people?
Do you think it’s safe to meet new people online?
Do you think it’s important for friends to spend time together?
What kinds of things do friends in your country like to do together?
Do you think families spend enough time together these days?
How has socialising changed over the last few decades?
Do you think it’s safe for children to socialise online?
Society

What social problems are there in your country?
What can be done to alleviate poverty?
Are there many charities in your country?
What is the difference between major crime and minor crime?
Do you think all criminals should go to prison?
Why do so many people move to live in cities?
What problems does over population cause?
Toys

What are popular toys for children in your country?
Have the toys for children changed over the last few decades?
Do you think boys and girls like the same toys?
Do you think it’s ok for boys to play with toys made for girls?
What kinds of games do children like most?
Do you think games and toys are educational for children?
Do you think it’s ok for children to spend a lot of time playing games on their devices?
What benefits can children gain from playing games with other children?
Transportation

How do most people travel around cities in your country?
How do most people travel around your country?
What do you think of the public transportation in your country?
How could the public transportation be improved?
How has transport changed over the last few decades?
Do you think trains are better than buses?
What do you think of budget air travel?
Do you think all transport will one day be run on green energy?
Do you think people should walk more rather than use cars?
Travel

Why do some people prefer to travel abroad rather than in their own country?
Do you think traveling to another country can change the way people think?
Do you think it is good for children to experience life in a foreign country?
How have holidays changed over the past few decades?
Do you think it is safer to travel now than in the past?
Weather

How many seasons are there in your country?
Does your country ever have extreme weather?
Does weather ever disrupt things in your country?
Why do you think some people enjoy living in a hot climate?
What types of activities can people do in cold climates?
What do you think it must be like to live in a country with only one type of weather all year round?
Is the weather easy to predict in your country?
Do you think weather influences people’s moods?
Do you think the world’s climate is changing?
What do you think is affecting the world’s climate?
Do you think individuals should take responsibility for the world’s global climate?
Work

Do you think job satisfaction is more important than salary when choosing a job?
What skills do you think are needed to get a good job these days?
Do you think women should be able to do all the same jobs that men do?
How has technology changed the way we work?
What is the difference between white collar and blue collar jobs?
What jobs do you think are most valuable to society?
At what age should people be allowed to retire?